so let me get started with our third one
this is models of words I expect that
people have mostly done the reading but
at the very beginning I'm going to kind
of summarize the reading and give a few
of my thoughts on it and then hopefully
people can you send us an opportunity to
ask questions or for elaboration on
things you didn't catch in the reading
materials but um so we're going to talk
about oops sorry
what we want to know about words so
basically there's a lot of different
things that we might want to know about
words for NLP applications or whatever
in the first one could be are they the
same part of speech so are these words
nouns or verbs or whatever do they have
the same conjugation are they a past
tense verb present tense verb do they
have that particular case or whatever do
these two words mean the same thing are
they simin um's or do they mean opposite
things are they antonyms or do they have
some sort of semantic relation like are
they is in relation or are they part of
went to school at etc so one manual
attempt that has been very very
successful at doing this is word nuts
there's a lots of others but word net is
basically something like this the main
thing is that it captures is relations
so we have artifact at the very top this
is spelled the strange Australian Way
because we got it from ltk but if you
ignore that we have artifact at the top
then we have motor-vehicle then we have
motorcar then we have a compact car a
hatchback in a gas guzzler which are all
types so this is a one way to get
information about words but it's a very
very major effort to develop it and this
was developed I believe at Princeton for
you know 20 you
and it still continues to be developed
and oh yeah and their projects in many
languages so there's word nets in many
other languages as well and what we
would like to do is hopefully we can do
something similar more complete and with
less effort so word net will always have
advantages of being manually curated and
very nice you know that it will be
accurate when it exists but we would
like to cover things in a more complete
way so the answer which you read about
in the in the reading is word embeddings
or word vectors or word representations
whatever you want to call them so we
have a continuous vector representation
of words that looks something like this
and within the word embeddings hopefully
the features of syntax or semantics or
whatever might be included within so for
example element 1 here might be more
positive for nouns or element 1 in
element 3 and element 7 if you put them
in that direction it might be indicative
of a noun or something like that element
2 might be more positive for animate
objects in element 3 might have no
intuitive meaning whatsoever which is
actually the case for probably most of
the things in this Spectre it probably
has a meaning but you know not it's not
interpreted so so word embeddings are
cool this is the obligatory slide that
you have to do whenever you introduce
word embeddings so yeh King - man plus
woman equals king sorry King - man plus
woman equals Queen um you know this is a
slide that probably most people in this
class of seeing before or a thing that
most people in the class have seen
before but this is really cool I think
you know with word net it's not entirely
clear whether you would have been able
to do something like this say what is
the female equivalent of a king or what
is you know what is the plural of king
you could maybe do this but the fact
that this
falls out of the data it is very
interesting um yeah that's righteous um
so how do we train word embeddings
there's a lot how do we get word
embeddings for whatever application that
we'd like to do there's a lot of
different ways these were covered um so
a very common way to do it is initialize
randomly and then train jointly with the
task that we care about so this means we
don't have to do any extra work and we
just train them like the language model
that I talked about before the second
one and this is actually quite rare I
think it's not very common to do this is
you have some supervised tasks where you
created annotation data like part of
speech tagging and then you can test it
on another task for example parsing this
was cited in the paper but I actually
don't know very much work that it's done
something like this and much more
commonly we have pre train on some
unsupervised tasks so we don't actually
care about this task very much at all
but then we use it on we use it on
another task that we do care about um so
that's it for the intro were there any
questions of stuff up until now we're
pretty straightforward okay
so I'll move on to the next part so
unsupervised free training of word
embeddings this is also a summary of the
reading materials that I'll go through
I'll go through just in case with some
code examples of how you actually do
this oh yes
so first thing I'd like to clear up a
little bit of terminology and the book
here actually I think was not super
clear on this distinction so this is my
one thing that you might notice about me
as the class progresses is I really care
about terminology because I think
terminology is important in making kind
of organizing your thoughts and this is
one place where all I'll talk about this
so distributional and distributed are
two
completely different things so
distributional representations are
basically saying that words are similar
if they appear in similar contexts so in
contrast you can think of non
distributional representations and
there's actually a paper by Manal
Farooqui who's here called non
distributional word representations and
basically this is something where you're
not looking at the distribution of a
word in a corpus and instead calculating
it from something else
so like wordnet would be one example so
distributional representations look at
how the word is used in context and non
distributional ones then the other thing
is distributed representations so
distributed representations are
basically word vectors that have lots
and lots of different features for the
word and that that's what I talked about
before and the contrast would be local
representations and this is something
like a one hot vector for example which
or a symbol so the this is what these
two terms mean so this is a example of a
distributional of Y distributional what
representations work so we have a little
code example in the code example sorry
called kW I see pi does anyone know what
kW I see stands for yeah okay
exactly keyword in context where did you
hear that okay so this is this is a word
that people in corpus linguistics will
definitely know it's a very common thing
and what they do is basically you take a
keyword and you show the things on
either side of the keyword and you can
see Pittsburgh has communications
Pittsburgh acquired a Pittsburgh firm
mr. Ellen's Pittsburgh firm and then you
also have a Cleveland merchant from
Cleveland to San Antonio and Cleveland
districts etcetera and you can kind of
see that the context surround it
indicate that it's a city or something
like that you can also see that
University of Pittsburgh is very common
in Carnegie Carnegie Mellon University
in Pittsburgh is not very common so we
need to try a little bit harder to get
ourselves in the Wall Street Journal
more off okay
but anyway so people who are doing
corpus linguistics use this keyword in
context thing a lot because it is very
useful for humans and it's also very
useful for computers as well um you can
try this out with your favorite word's
um so then up until very recently there
were lots of count based methods that
basically calculated these distributed
representations by counting up contexts
and these were also covered in the in
the material reading tools but create a
word context count make tricks count the
number of occurrences maybe weight them
with something like weight wise mutual
information maybe reduce the dimensions
using sve and measure their closeness
using cosine similarity or dissimilarity
or something like that so this is nice
it's relatively scalable because you're
just counting things over a big corpus
and yeah these these methods exist
there's a good survey of this in 2010 or
maybe two good survey soon to this in
2010 one by tourney in pen pal
the other sorry I'm forgetting off the
top of my head but you can take a look
at all the examples here they're cited
in the book and then the prediction
based methods are the ones like word
Tyvek that use something similar to
neural networks so that's one will cut
handle more so we tried to predict
something using a task that we don't
really care about and then the word
embeddings or the bike project so we've
already covered language models in the
class and this is kind of the the first
way that people created prediction based
word embeddings so this is my thing from
the previous my slide from the previous
lecture so basically if we look here
where are our word embeddings in this
slide yeah so they look up up here and
one more place close but not quite what
anybody else
yes exactly so we we have the lookup
word embeddings and then we also have
the output word embeddings you notice I
mentioned last time we can share these
as well and make one big thing of word
embeddings so if you train a language
model you get you get word embeddings
for free basically um so if you think
about what a language model is doing
it's also doing something like a keyword
in context so we have giving ah and then
the next and it's looking at the left
context and then predicting this word so
it's like key word and left context
basically but um there's also other
methods like the ones used in word to
back which actually bring us closer to
the the key word in context thing that I
showed before so if we don't need to
calculate the probability of the
sentence we can think of other more
direct methods to do this yeah so closer
to the contexts that we used in the key
word in context thing and closer to
count based methods yeah and these try
four to that key so the first one is the
SIBO method that you saw in the reading
materials and basic
to make it a little bit more graphical I
guess you could what you're doing is
you're looking up all of the surrounding
words you're adding them together into a
vector and then you're using this vector
to basically predict a score here and
this score can be used to calculate a
probability and predict the words um the
reason why I wrote it this way is to
kind of equate it with the language
models and so we can see what it what
we're doing similarly and what we're
doing differently so I guess there's two
big differences here between this and
the language model that I showed before
our people so what are the differences
yeah exactly we can look at the future
is one big difference so we're looking
at at and the and what's the other thing
yeah exactly
addition or concatenation so here we're
adding everything together and in the
other place where concatenated things
together so um the reason why addition
why concatenation is good is because as
I mentioned before knowing which word
came to words before versus what which
word came one word before it's useful
information but if we're learning if
we're learning word embeddings we might
not actually care about our prediction
accuracy too much so this is this is a
way to do things that allows us to do it
without worrying that allows us to be
more efficient basically um yeah oh and
then we calculate the loss given the
given the thing so we can we can take a
look we have a code example for this so
you will see in your sorry
you will see in in the code example
directory we have let's see
word word embassy bowtie and this will
look very very similar to the language
modeling example that you saw before
basically the only difference is there's
only a couple differences the main thing
is this calculate sentence loss function
so what we have here is we have a
sentence we're taking in this sentence
this is word ids basically and then we
Pat it on either side with with
something of size N and then we look up
the word embeddings for all of the old
end things on all of the words in this
padded sentence then we this is our kind
of our matrix that we use to calculate
the softmax and then we have a loss for
every word in the sentence and then we
step through every word in the sentence
we have this kind of strange range thing
here and the reason why is because we
have padding on either side so we
basically step step through only the
real words in here and we ignore the
words over here then we we add up oops
sorry
we add up the things on on either side
so this is the red vector add up thing
here and then we append a loss where we
do prediction um so you'll notice in the
material set we had things about
negative sampling and stuff like that
and we're actually going to cover those
in in much more detail next time so
right now here I'm still calculating the
the softmax yeses and then another
thing is that now we actually care about
our embeddings we're actually going to
output them into so we can use them for
a later task so here at the very end we
have a thing where we say about the
embedding files and you can you can open
them up if you run this so yeah that
that's the main difference we're still
training this on the penn treebank
corpus and stuff so you can try that out
if you like any questions so far on this
No okay so we can move on to the next
one the next one is the Skip Graham
model so the Skip Graham model is
actually very similar to the Siebel
model the only difference is instead of
predicting each word in the context
given the word or instead of predicting
the word given its context we're
predicting the context given the word so
what that looks like is basically we do
a look up here we multiply this look up
by a weight matrix and get our scores
and then we calculate the loss for all
of the surrounding words based on this
and these are kind of the two the two
models that are used in word to Veck
which are the kind of popular ones so I
I'll spare you the details you can take
a look you can take a look at the code
here it's really quite quite similar but
I didn't actually run both of these and
see which one gave us better results on
the the corpus here but I think the
consensus is that they're pretty similar
and SIBO
where it's a little bit better sometimes
but they're there's not a big difference
between them and then there's other
they're notes so um there's a very nice
paper by O'Meara Levy and you have
Goldberg that basically analyzes the
skip gram objective and derives
basically the ideal form of this are
people familiar with this um looks like
what's it yeah yeah exactly where they
show that the objective that you're
optimizing is similar to the objective
that you're optimizing based on matrix
factorization where each element of the
matrix looks something like this where K
is the number of negative samples which
as I said we're going to talk about next
time but it's interesting because the
unlike most neural networks the skip
gram objective and the SIBO objective
are so simple that you can actually go
in and do this analysis and say these
are you know these are basically the
same the major difference is that you
would need to do a big matrix
factorization here and in for SIBO and
skip gram you're not doing a big matrix
factorization you're just skipping
stepping through the corpus I don't
think anybody has well to my knowledge
people have not tried this extensively
but I my guess is that what they would
obtain very similar results and there
are other estimation methods actually
lots and lots of estimation methods the
most popular one is glove basically what
this is doing is this is looking at the
distributions and optimizing it in a
different way that is slightly are a bit
more efficient and sometimes works well
as written in the book and kind of my
intuition and experience says the
optimization method is kind of secondary
to how you pick your context and how you
decide decide what you're predicting as
opposed to how you predict it and also
secondary to how big your data is or how
good your name
so that brings us to the next thing
which is what contexts do you use so
context has a large effect on on what
your what kind of embeddings are gonna
get so um this is very interesting so if
you think about it it makes a lot of
sense so if you have a small context
window you get more syntax based
embeddings if you have a large context
window you get more semantics pasted in
topical embeddings and if you have a
context window based on syntax so for
example you look at the parents or the
children according to a dependency tree
you get something that's more functional
or something with words with the same
inflection group together just focusing
on the first two do people understand
why this is the case yeah so if you
think about the words next to a noun the
words directly next to a noun will be
like of noun or a noun or something like
that so the words directly next to it
will be very similar but if you look at
the large context it will be you know
what is the general topic of the
document that you're talking about so
how you adjust this makes a big
difference and actually um that people
heard of brown clustering yeah so brown
clustering sis method from 1992 or
something something like that and it's a
method for getting clusters and it's
based on this local Engram context by
Graham context but actually there's a
section at the very end of the paper
that says oh if you use a large context
window you can also get semantic
clusters and look at a look at this as
well so apparently this is this is
something that's not just true forward
to that it's true for all kind of models
that induce clusters or something like
that so if you're thinking thinking
about creating something there you
should definitely think about this um in
any questions so far that's the kind of
review part
okay so the evaluating embeddings part
um this is going to be a bit broader
than the reading materials I'm going to
cover some other things that were not
covered extensively there but basically
this is another thing where I'm a
stickler for terminology there's a
number of different types of evaluation
and also categorization of how you
evaluate things so you can think of
intrinsic versus extrinsic evaluation um
this is something that many people might
know here but if you don't know it's a
very nice distinction to know about um
so intrinsic evaluation is basically how
good is the thing that you have and the
way you measure how good it is is by
looking at it and in measuring something
something about its properties or
something like that
well extrinsic evaluation is how useful
is it in a downstream task basically you
you try to use it to do something and if
you use it after you use it to do
something if it works well for your task
then it's a good thing the second is
qualitative versus quantitative this one
I expect almost everybody to know so
qualitative you examine the
characteristics of examples quantitative
you calculate some sort of statistics
about it and if the statistics are good
then it's good um so first starting out
with um with this visualization
oh sorry good yes I so this is a this is
a first quiz which will not be graded on
this what what is this in the previous
categorization so intrinsic versus
extrinsic who says intrinsic yeah in the
extrinsic yeah intrinsic and qualitative
versus quantitative this is qualitative
and quantitative yeah it's it's
basically qualitative
qualitative intrinsic evaluation so
you're looking at the word of betting's
how good are they and you're doing it in
a subjective manner by looking at
examples so one way you can do this is
by reducing high dimensional embeddings
into a 2 or 3d visualization one example
this example is from McLobster paper on
word de Becque and basically you can see
that if you reduce the word embedding
space to a two dimensional space and
then pick out a few salient examples
like China Japan Beijing Moscow Tokyo
you can see that kind of the cities or
sorry the the countries are in one axis
the cities are on another axis and
interestingly they kind of line up so
this is one of the things I talked about
you know like is capital of
relationships are kind of showing up
here things that our countries or cities
are kind of showing up here also so
that's an interesting so there's a
number of different ways to do
projection the most common is principal
component analysis which is a linear
project projection into a low
dimensional space another very popular
option of another popular option to do
visualize visualization of word
embeddings is us I actually don't know
how to pronounce the first one the
second one everybody says tis nee I
don't know if the first one's just me
but and it's tis nee anyway and that
idea you know the basic idea is that you
want to group things together that are
similar in similars like vocal spaces in
the space so things that will be close
together locally will be close together
after your visualization and you can
look at a an example of this so here we
have we have a projection of pca and
this is not of a language data this is
of amnestied digits which are images so
you can see pca it does 10
to reduce images that are the same into
kind of similar spaces but there's a lot
of overlap but if you compare this with
what Disney comes up with you can see
the Disney thing is much better grouped
together basically you can see that the
image the same images which are the same
color here basically get grouped into
coherent clusters so this is a very
popular option we've included a code
example of this when you look at the
code example you can see basically let's
see we can go back we have this Disney
dot pi thing I'm not going to go through
all of the math here but you can you can
take a look at it if you want it's a
good example and then we have the the
visualization the Disney visualization
and this basically all it does is it
calls this library and we're randomly
displaying I guess the top 1000 was it
and then you can also specify a file of
target words that you would like to
visualize so if you wanted to try the
China China Beijing Tokyo Japan Tokyo
thing you could you could try this as
well and I believe I have an example of
this in this example was unfortunately
run because I did this just
sorry that it's not working um because I
did this just before class started I
only have one iteration of of this
working but um we have this word we have
these word vectors which you cannot see
it all and then if we if we zoom zoom
zoom zoom zoom zoom zoom
so this PNG file was like gigantic I
think it's I forget the dimensionality
you could see Arabia and Colombia and
creativity are very close so apparently
apparently countries and creativity are
close but um this as I said this is only
one iteration of word vector training
and probably if you did more if he did
more data you'd get something that
looked a little bit better but but hey
that's that's what you get so you can
use that if you want to play around with
this at all to visualize any embedding
say you learn any other questions or
stuff okay yes okay so basically um its
objective what it's trying to do is you
have a you have a probabilistic model we
are things where each point has a
Gaussian distribution around it and the
guy the point gives a probability to
each of the words or each of the each of
the vectors and because so similar words
will have a higher probability according
to that distribution and what it tries
to do is it will you have your
two dimensional space that you want to
map things on and it tries to move
things close in the two-dimensional
space to maximize the probability based
on like to maximize the probability
based on that Gaussian distribution in
the high dimensional space so if you get
things that give each other a high
probability in the high dimensional
space close together in the low
dimensional space then you'll get a
bonus and it's doing an optimization
problem to solve that you can you can
take a look at the details I I probably
shouldn't say anymore to prevent myself
from saying it I know that's correct but
I won't prevent myself from saying
anything more incorrect about that so
but one one thing is that you should be
careful when using nonlinear when using
them linear projections and this this
citation is a citation that something
called distilled pub which is this kind
of like online online visualization or
journal with visualization type thing
and it's actually a very nice link if
you take a look at basically there's a
bunch of reasons why you should be
careful when using this type of
visualization also so one is that the
settings really matter so if you set
this this perplexity term basically to
go from a certain value to a certain
value you can see you get a radically
different visualization if you also
linear correlations cannot be
interpreted so if you look at something
like this you can see you start out with
two lines which seems very very it seems
like it should still be two lines after
you do visualization but after after you
run through tis knee you might get a few
things that are split up you might get
one line in another line like that you
might get curved things you might get a
helix even that's pretty impressive or
you might get something
like uline's so um one thing is that if
you remember before I saw I did the that
kind of like King and then Queen and
then Kings and then queens thing you can
do this with a bow dimensional
projection or when your projection like
PCA but you can't do this with a linear
projection liked is a non linear
projection like this so when you're
writing figures in your paper and you
see a really nice linear when you're a
correlation in your tis knee plot it
actually doesn't mean anything so don't
don't try to interpret it that way okay
so then we also have intrinsic
evaluation of embeddings so there's a a
nice paper by snap null at all or ya
Schnabel at all and it's it basically
categorizes various types of evaluation
metrics for embeddings and one is
relatedness so relatedness is the
correlation between the embeddings
cosine similarity and some human
evaluation of similarity so if the two
words have hi cosine similarity they
should be similar in human evaluation
and if they have low cosine similarity
and this is measured according to your
standard correlation coefficients like
Pearson's experiments or something
another is analogy tasks so a is to be
as X as to Y so King as to what woman is
to King as man is to X or something like
that
so finding the appropriate word um
categorization you can create clusters
based on the embeddings and measure the
purity of the clusters or there's also
selectional preference I think this is a
little bit more minor but you can say
that this particular verb gets a noun
this particular verb
takes these sorts of nouns as its
subject or object and if if that's right
then you get points if it's wrong then
you don't get plates um so extrinsic
evaluation using word embeddings and
systems this is actually probably what
we care about more but it's a lot harder
to do and a lot more more system
specifics so there's lots of ways you
can use word embeddings and systems but
maybe the probably the most common two
are you take your parsing model if you
have a parsing model you take your your
pre-trained word embeddings and you use
some to initialize your your worded
Nutting's in your model the second one
is you can concatenate them together so
you take your pre trained word
embeddings and you concatenate them to
other embedding set you learn and these
have disadvantages oh well I didn't
finish my sentence I apologize so these
both have advantages um concatenated
embeddings has the advantage that you
don't change anything of the embedding
set you've already learned so you could
think about if you think about the
reason why you normally use word
embeddings in the first place it's
because you have words that weren't
covered by your training data for your
parser or your part of speech never or
whatever so you get this really nice
embedding space where you have beautiful
beautiful PC a beautiful clusters
everything looks nice and then suddenly
you train on your parsing data where
only this part of your clusters are
actually included in the parsing data so
this is not this this is not a great
idea right because if or if you
initialize with this then suddenly what
happens is this moves in this direction
this moves in this direction and this
moves in this direction because that's
what's better for parsing but all the
other word embeddings don't work in your
parsing data these all get left out they
are suddenly not consistent with with
the things you learned so concatenation
helps
this because you concatenate things and
then you don't change them at all but
you can still learn you know specific
embeddings that might be that might help
out with the things that are useful um
so any questions about this okay yeah
yes oh yeah so the but the but is it
increases your perimeter space yes
that's okay so next how do I choose
embeddings let's say you have your your
wonderful glove and betting's you have
your wonderful your wonderful words of
ekend betting's and your wonderful fast
text embeddings and then whatever other
amenities you can find so the answer
here is that I don't know I can't give
you any recommendations and probably
nobody can give you good recommendations
and the reason why is basically because
it's extremely test dependent so let's
say you train word Tyvek with a short
context window that might work very well
for parsing but not for semantic tasks
because you get some syntactic and
betting's
but if you train word Tyvek with a big
context window that might work very well
for semantic tasks but not syntactic
tasks so we have an example here this
this is also from this paper and
basically SIBO is great for for a lot of
the kind of intrinsic evaluation
measures of word embeddings that are
mostly semantic but if you do chunking
was chunking cover to know where those
four NLP at all or no so chunking is
basically like it's like shallow parsing
so you're looking for noun phrases form
phrases and stuff this is a syntactic
desk and for the syntactic tasks
completely different embeddings were
were more helpful so really you can have
better embeddings by having better data
bigger data or something like that but
in the end the features that you are
there going to depend on the task so you
need to be aware of this and pick the
one that you think
is his best for whatever you're going to
be doing
and finally when are pre-trained and
betting's be being useful when should
you go through the the trouble of using
pre-trained embeddings in your models
basically when training data for your
core tasks that you care about is not
enough so they're very useful for
tagging parsing text classification so
there's many many stories about them
being useful here they are less useful
for machine translation few people have
reported good results here um and
basically they shouldn't be useful for
language modeling and the reason why
they shouldn't be useful for language
modeling is because you have the same
data for language modeling and training
your embeddings language models are
trained on are trained on plain text so
our word embeddings so you know
theoretically you shouldn't be getting
very much from doing this unless you
from learning so first to clarify for mt
for Mt perplexity and blue score are
both intrinsic metrics of the mt
accuracy perplexity is not a very good
one blue is a better one an extrinsic
measure of mt accuracy would be using mt
and a cross lingual information
retrieval system or using mt to help
middle-school students pass their
english tests and then if you did that
then that would be an extrinsic metric
so in blue and perplexity are both
measures of how well you're doing it
and so these are the intrinsic metrics
of word and betting usefulness if you
really care about finding analogies then
maybe this could be considered an
intrinsic extrinsic metric but these are
usually considered intrinsic and then
extrinsic ones are parsing accuracy
chunking accuracy things for some other
task that you care about but not so
selectional preference is something
basically entirely different it's
deciding whether a particular word can
be a subject or object of a particular
verb so I just
[Music]
okay so guessing the word guessing the
word given the context is a problem of
language modeling and that is it's not
used to to measure the accuracy of the
nettings
and probably the reason why it's not
used is because word embeddings are not
very useful in language modeling tasks
yeah so yeah so I will I will move on to
sorry went too far
okay so this is the last section this is
not covered by the reading materials at
all this is kind of a survey of the
different ways that people tend to use
or would like to improve embeddings and
make them better for whatever purpose
you want to do so number one second ones
so number one is basically we
a number of limitations for embeddings
that we would like to fix and all of
these models are basically created to
fix one of these limitations so number
one is embeddings are sensitive to
superficial differences so the
superficial differences are things like
dog in dogs we on the other hand they're
also insensitive to context so this is
kind of the opposite of the thing of
superficial differences so there's no
superficial difference between this bank
and other bank and their surface form
but financial Bank and Bank of a river
are very different
another thing is they're not necessarily
coordinated with knowledge or
coordinated across languages they are
not interpreted so you can do PCA but
make the each individual dimension of
the of the word embedding might not make
anything and also they can encode bias
such as stereotypical gender roles or
racial biases um so one way to us our
good um that's a that's a good point
I will talk about that maybe after I
talk about the ways that people do
normally so um oh the question was
whether you can pre-process the data to
remove the superficial differences so
the way people try to try to basically
smooth over these small differences in
words is by doing some sort of sub word
sub word embedding so one maybe the
first way that people tried to do this
within the neural prediction based
frameworks anyway is a morpheme based
models so they had this nice they had
this nice model where they had this
recursive tree structure the model of
morphology where you split it up into
uninformed and them into unfortunate and
then you split a head unfortunate and we
and you combine them into unfort
we so it was kind of this recursive
neural network model so this was in 2013
and then in 2015 we have character based
models so what these character based
models do is basically they split each
word into characters such as cats up
there and then you run a bi-directional
OS TM recurrent neural network over
these to calculate the characters I'm
going to talk about recurrent neural
networks later but basically it's a
character based model where you so this
was in a 2015 and then very recently in
in 2017 there was a bag of character
engrams model used to remember represent
words so if we have where basically we
we split it up into wh-wh eh er er e re
and instead of using a 1 hat embedding
for the word we use a kind of n hot
embedding that counts these character
engrams so this is this is the method
behind in the used engrams from 3 to 6
plus the word itself this is used in the
fast text toolkit my facebook so I think
the consensus is that basically some
sort of sub word information is useful
it allows you to generalize to low
frequency words it allows you to
calculate values for unknown words um
one interesting thing is we started out
with a really nice linguistically
motivated model and then we gradually
regressed to bag of character engrams so
now we have this this model that has no
sort of competition or whatever but this
seems to work pretty well most
importantly it's simple and fast so I
think this is a good choice if you want
to train things on big big amounts of
data I'd probably recommend using this
instead of word to Wecker or glove or
anything like that just because often
you'll want
you'll want embeddings for words that
weren't in your training data and this
can give you them any any questions so
far
yeah so the the sub word model so maybe
where where it's not a great example
this would be this is the example that
was in the paper but probably a better
example would be a long word like decide
and then you have decided so if you
think about that many of the character
engrams and decide and decided are going
to be the same so you start out with
something that's very similar and
hopefully that will help you generalize
is the motivation of course probably a
recursive neural network over morphology
will do an even better job of allowing
you to do that but that requires a lot
of linguistic resources and it might be
slower so you couldn't calculate it down
lots of languages I think probably so
what's so this this model on the right
is a bi-directional SVM and
bi-directional Alice tiems do better at
everything if you know don't quote me on
that but bi-directional Alice gems are a
very strong model that can learn lots of
complicated things but the problem is
they're kind of slow and they're going
to be much slower than the bag of
character and Graham's things so if you
can train the bag of character engrams
on a hundred times more training data
because it's fast and parallelizable or
something then that might be a better
choice but I think if you had lots of
data lots of kind of like a big network
or something like that the one on the
right might do a better job and I don't
have any empirical evidence
yeah yeah well both methods are good we
have other methods for doing that for
machine translation which I might talk
about a bit more later but yeah okay so
that's the sub word thing the second one
this is the opposite problem where you
have words where the surface form is the
same but you want to calculate you want
to calculate basically different
meanings for them so this is an example
this was actually from the kind of count
based paradigm before the predict the
predict paradigm but this is called
multi prototype embeddings and basically
what you do is each word is split into a
particular cluster so you might have
four clusters for the word position
because you know there are four senses
for the word position in your dictionary
or something like that and then each
time you you do some sort of adjustment
you first decide which cluster it
belongs to and then and then kind of
split up or optimize based on the
cluster assignment there was also a
paper in 2014 that does this in a
nonparametric way so you don't have to
choose the number of clusters in advance
and basically what it does is it finds
out whether it looks like this word is
in a context similar to the places where
you've already seen it and if the answer
is yes then it will put it in that
cluster if the answer is no then it will
it will create a new cluster for it so
um this is useful for solving the
problem of having only one embedding for
each word so the second another thing is
that embeddings might not be necessarily
be coordinated with something that you
want on one example of wanting things to
be coordinated is where you want things
coordinated across across languages so
let's say you want to do parsing in in
50 languages
so there there's a dependency parsing
over I forget how many languages but
over a lot of languages tasks at Connell
this year where you basically have lots
of lots of data in some languages so you
can learn a good parser for them but you
have very little data or very few data
in other languages so in that case you
might want to use word embeddings to
kind of help you generalize but it
doesn't work very well if your word
embeddings are in a completely different
space for different languages so this
method basically it uses a method called
CCA
so you pre train your word embeddings in
both languages using a large corpus of
monolingual data then after that you
take a translation dictionary and you
say okay this word in this word in this
in each language mean the same thing and
then you try to learn transformation
matrices to ensure that the words that
are translations of each other go to the
same go to the same place and if you do
this you get embeddings that mean the
same thing across different languages
and it also has the auxilary nice effect
of improving your monolingual embeddings
as well so your monolingual embeddings
get better from this multilingual
supervision there was actually an
interesting paper at ACL this year where
they instead of taking a full
translation dictionary they basically
just took the numerals like 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 and learned the transformation
matrix from that and it's still helped
which was kind of a shocking result but
it's a it's pretty interesting I don't
think that's on the references but I'll
try to add it later
yeah so that's that's this of the other
paper um I'm sorry you'll have to look
that up and add it to that oh I'll try
to add it to the page and also mention
on Piazza and any other questions
okay so this is another paper it's very
very much in the same in the same vein
is the one that I talked about before
but um I started out talking about this
or I started out this lecture with
wordnet which is this very nice lexical
resource that has lots of human effort
very high precision etc and we would
like to be able to use this resource
this paper was actually best paper at
neckl 2015 or 16 or something like that
by Manal Farooqui who's here who was
here at CMU at the time and he had this
nice this nice picture of Chris Dyer and
Adobe fighting over Chris Tyler likes
word embeddings and Ed hope he likes
lexicons so we need to reconcile them so
they don't have to fight any more about
it but regardless of that it's a it's a
nice a nice paper and the but basically
the idea is that we have these links
between between the words etc and we
would like our word embeddings to be
respecting the direction of these links
and we use a similar method of learning
when you're projections that basically
turn turn our word vectors into a space
where if you follow a link it will be
consistent with this and there's a bunch
of other methods that I'll probably talk
about later about like learning
knowledge bases from word and betting
said follow this same kind of general
trend so one other thing that I
I mentioned was a problem was that word
embeddings are not necessarily
interpretive all that might not
necessarily be a problem if you just
like to use them but sometimes you would
like to kind of know what's going on
under the hood um one way to kind of
solve this problem and make them more
interpretable is by doing sparse
embeddings so there's a number of
methods to do this
the so one one example from kind of the
count based framework and there's a
couple other examples from the
prediction based framework as you add
some sort of sparsity constraint to
which will try to force most of the
dimensions in the embedding to be zero
and if you force most of the dimensions
in the embedding to be zero basically
you hope that each individual embedding
each individual dimension of the
embedding will have more information
because the ones that are active will
have to encode some information about
the word and this specifically this this
paper specifically did both sparse and
and positive so kind of like a negative
a negative feature doesn't make a lot of
sense is harder to interpret than a
positive feature so this this paper did
this and they made the embeddings very
very large
they made the embeddings I think it was
like four times larger than the than the
dense and betting's
in order to take account for the fact
that most were zero and three times
larger I'm sorry um so if you look at
the SVD based learned embeddings with
300 dimensions and you pick random
dimensions and lists the words and the
dimensions you get things that don't
really mean a whole lot like well long
if your watch plan engineer akaviri but
if you do the non non- sparse embedding
you get things like inhibitor inhibitors
antagonist receptors inhibition a
Bristol fame Southampton bright and cool
so things that actually make sense on
each
and this is a final one this is
something that a lot of people have been
I guess interested in recently which is
when we have our AI based systems and
our AI based systems are making very
real decisions about our lives like
whether to give you a loan or something
like that we want to be very sure that
it is not doing something evil um so
this is just one example of how we how
we do something like that and basically
the idea is that word embeddings reflect
bias in statistics so if we have a bias
statistic we might have word embeddings
that basically come up with things like
see if you wanted she and he and you
look at the occupation based words for
each of these it comes up with things
like homemaker nurse receptionist etc
for female and maestro skipper protege
philosopher for meal and this is
obviously not you know or i think it's
obviously not a good thing if we're
forcing basically forcing occupations on
people based on our data so the idea
here is basically that we would like to
essentially essentially neutralize
something like this so we can make more
fair decisions and so what they did here
was they come up with with basically
things that are kind of undisputably
gender appropriate so brother and sister
are you know they're the words that you
use for male and female siblings
queening ting waitress/waiter
etc and these these things are used to
learn the like the gender dimension and
then the other things so in the other
things we they try to neutralize
neutralize them so they don't vary along
this dimension but they can vary along
the other dimensions um I don't know if
this is the final answer to doing
something like this methodologically but
I think it's
an important thing to think about when
you're building a system is your system
inadvertently discriminating against
people because that's what the data told
it to do so this is a very interesting
case study so yeah that's all for today
are there any questions or discussion um
so I think youyou should definitely read
the paper to make sure not summarizing
it in a incorrect way but basically you
can calculate a direction that is the
direction of he and she the direction of
king and queen the direction of sister
and brother and that's like this
stereotypical or the the prototype
vector for male and female differences I
guess and then they basically do a
projection of the other pairs so they
don't vary along that along that
dimension um as I said this is not the
only way to do this and there's probably
much better ways that don't require you
to prepare these pairs etc like we we
had a paper where you had an adversarial
objective over your over your embeddings
or encoding this or something like that
that helped prevent this as well but
this paper is a very interesting example
of this anyway
um I there's a lot of subjectivity in
that but I would say is a good baseline
you should use fast text so fast text is
is very nice in that it uses some words
it's fast it's easy to run on large
corpora um it doesn't do stuff like like
ensuring that things are consistent
between languages for example so you
might have to do something in addition
but if you just want something out of
the box that works well
sub words are good for machine
translation I don't think people do
pre-training of embeddings for machine
translation very often for the reason
that I mentioned before which is that we
have lots of training data but I think
they're probably good for semantic tasks
and they're probably better for selected
tasks actually so that's that's a very
good question and actually that's one of
the very nice things about this method
here so I didn't explain this figure
very very closely but and they're using
similar they're using similar methods so
you'll notice here we have the Sigma
Sigma - and Omega - and these are the
ones that are actually aligned between
the languages and there's only a subset
they're only a subset of all the word
embeddings in the language but you're
learning a linear projection and then
you're projecting all the embeddings so
that linear projection is consistent
across the entire language so a similar
method is being used in the in the word
neck paper and that's why
so the results of the training method
[Music]
yes so I think as I mentioned at the
very beginning and was also mentioned
the book the actual method that you use
to solve the problem the actual
numerical method that you used to solve
the problem is often not it doesn't make
a big difference in the results compared
to the actual problem you're trying to
solve so whether it's CCA or pairwise
ranking loss or linea learning a linear
projection matrix or something like that
I think it might be more important to
have an intuition of the problem you're
solving versus the actual exact method
that you use so I don't know if that
answers the question okay looks like
there's no more questions so yeah thank
you everybody